# Radial-Basis-Functions-For-PDEs

In this project, we solved some PDEs with Radial Basis Functions (The multiquadric and the compactly supprted functions). We Started by studying some simple parabolic equations (Laplacien equation in 1D and 2D, and the heat equation). Then, we studied some hyperbolic equations. The first one we treated was the Advection_Diffusion equation in 1D, 2D and 3D with DISCONTINUOUS initial condition. The second one is the non linear Burger's equation in 1D and 2D. Then we solved the linear system Shallow_Water equation. we solved these equations using the multiquadric and the compacly supported functions, and we have compared the numerical sulotions with the exact solution which is known. We have also compared the errors between the two methods and the exact solution and we have given some errors tables to see the efficiency of the method. We have studied Riemann problems (Discontinou Initial Conditions) because they has more difficulty and the standard RBF method doesn't give sufficient results (No stabilisation). So that's why we use Rang-Kutta 4 for the timing-scheme and some other tricks.

We should mension that this method is very nice because there is no mesh needed and it's simply applicable to complexe geometries. All we need is to take a collocation of points not necesssary uniform and it works (If we choose a suitable shape parameter). It's also efficient for high dimensional problems (2D, 3D, 4D, ...), and the CPU time is very small campared with other methods. The difficulties of this method are various, the most one is the choice of the shape parameter that plays the big role in the stabilty and the convergence of the solution. There are no formulation or any explicit expression that gives the best choice of this parameter for all PDEs (Except some problems there are some approches). 

The principile of the method is given in the report (you will find it in the branch called report) with figures showing the method's implementations. The stability of the method depends on the shape parameter existing in the form of the radial basis function, and the CFL condition. So for the time we were using the Euler and Rang-Kutta 2, 3 and 4 schemes. And for the shape parameter, we gave an arbitrary value or some conditions basing on previous research works (Scientific articles). Note that the stability of this method studying the shape parameter is still a field of research till now !!!!

The codes are given in the file "Codes" and they are in python (.py). Every code treats a certain equation with all the time-schemes (Euler and RK 2,3,4) and both of methods (Multiquadric and Compactly Supported). It also compute two types of errors (MAE and RMSE). For the one-dimentional Burger's equation, We have studied Riemann problems (6 cases : Chock/ Detente/Both/...) in one file, that's why the codes are a little long, Because they treat all two methods and 4 time-schemes in just one program and all we need is to comment and uncomment a certain string variables to choose the method (MQ or CS) and the time-scheme (Eule/RK2/RK3/RK4).

Note that the files Schemes.py, Schemes2D.py and Schemes_SW.py are necessary to execute the other files.py. Well in these 3 files, we defined a lot of functions, time schemes and exact and initial conditions that we call in the other files !!

This work was our first project concerning solving PDEs with a numerical method using a programming language. And it has been done by me and my classmate RIFQUI ABDESSADEK under the direction of the professor TAIK Ahmed which we really thank so much for his time and cooperation
